How to Create a Vote Proposal Process (#100)
global-synchronizer-foundation/configs: processes/vote-proposal.md

## How to Create a Vote Proposal Process

### Purpose

This process defines how an SV operator may create and submit a vote proposal for consideration by other SV operators.

### Status

This is a draft process based on current working practices and discussions in prior meetings. No fully formal process yet exists.

### Process

#### 1. Draft your proposal

- For new CIPs:
  - Draft a CIP per CIP guidelines.
  - Submit as PR to [CIP repo](https://github.com/global-synchronizer-foundation/cips).

- For operational votes not requiring a CIP (e.g. weights, featured app markers):
  - Prepare a clear proposal text in Slack or Google Docs, including:
    - Exact action to be taken
    - Networks impacted (DevNet, TestNet, MainNet)
    - Proposed timing / effectivity
    - Link to supporting materials (if any)

#### 2. Announce your intent to vote

- Announce intent to create a vote via an email to 
supervalidator-announce@lists.sync.global

> - Allow time (usually 1-2 days) for discussion and any objections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I dont think we want this. There's a 7 days expiration on votes by default, that's plenty of time for discussion while the vote proposal is in-flight, don't see value in introducing this delay (and I'm not aware that it was discussed in the ops call, so I don't think I'm going against anything that was decided)

    - The exact action to be taken
    - Networks impacted (DevNet, TestNet, MainNet)
    - Proposed timing and effectivity
    - Links to any supporting materials or references

#### 2. Initiate on-ledger vote

- Use the SV UI or corresponding SV app API to create the on-ledger vote.
- Include a clear and consistent vote description matching the proposal.
- Immediately upon opening the vote, send a notification email to:
  - `supervalidator-announce@lists.sync.global`

  This email must include:
  - A summary of the proposal
  - The contract ID to the on-ledger vote
  - Any relevant context or supporting links
- [Optional] Announce the vote in `#supervalidator-ops` on Slack.

#### 3. Coordinate follow-up actions

- For CIPs or operational votes requiring a GitHub PR (e.g., weights, IPs):
  - Prepare the corresponding PR(s) once the vote passes.
  - Announce PR status and request review/merge in `#supervalidator-ops`.

### Notes

- Only one email announcement is required per vote. It should be sent to `supervalidator-announce@lists.sync.global` when the vote goes live.
- Effective-at-threshold votes should only be used in emergencies.

> - Standard proposal expiration is 5 business days, with effectivity at least 1 day after expiration.

Author: ```suggestion
- Standard proposal expiration is 7 days, with effectivity at least 1 day after expiration.
```
